Add Swan Lake Alpha Release Note (#1730)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-alpha/RELEASE_NOTE.md

   }

   public isolated function detach(service object {} s) returns error? {
   }

   public isolated function attach(service object {} s, string[]|string? name = ()) returns error? {
   }

   public function init() returns error? {
      ...
      // object init failed due to some reason
      if (object_init_failed) {
         return error("Listener initialization failed");
      }
   }
}
```

**Previous Syntax:**
```ballerina
listener lsn = new Listener();

public class Listener {
   ...
   ...
   // listener life cycle methods

   public function init() {
      ...
      // object init failed due to some reason
      if (object_init_failed) {
         panic error("Listener initialization failed");
      }
   }
}
```

##### Referring Lang Library Modules Without Using Quoted Identifiers

Lang library module prefixes can now be used without the initial quote. For example, both the approaches below are now supported.

```ballerina
int a = int:sum(1, 2);
```

```ballerina
int a = ‘int:sum(1, 2);
```

The way of overriding a langlib module is also relaxed now. For example, both the approaches below are now supported.

```ballerina
import somePackage.someModule as string;
```

and

> 

Reviewer: Let's remove this and as well

- [Highlights](#highlights)
- [What is new in Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha](#what-is-new-in-ballerina-swan-lake-alpha)
    - [Packages](#packages)
        - [Introduction of Hierarchical Package Names](#introduction-of-hierarchical-package-names)
        - [Introduction of the Dependencies TOML file](#introduction-of-the-dependencies-toml-file)
        - [Support to Accept an Empty Ballerina TOML File](#support-to-accept-an-empty-ballerina-toml-file)
    - [Language](#language)
        - [Intersection Type Support for Errors](#intersection-type-support-for-errors)
        - [Support for Passing a Closed Record as the Rest Argument](#support-for-passing-a-closed-record-as-the-rest-argument)
        - [Support for Empty XML Values](#support-for-empty-xml-values)
        - [Improved Usage of Listener Declarations with Listener Types](#improved-usage-of-listener-declarations-with-listener-types)
        - [Improvements to the `match` Statement](#improvements-to-the-match-statement)
        - [Support for Cyclic Union Types](#support-for-cyclic-union-types)
        - [Updated Syntax for User-Defined Error Constructions](#updated-syntax-for-user-defined-error-constructions)

>         - [Changes on Casting with Errors](#changes-on-casting-with-errors)

Author: Fixed.

    - [Runtime](#runtime)
        - [Configurable](#configurable)
    - [Developer Tools](#developer-tools)
        - [Language Server](#language-server)
        - [Project API](#project-api)
        - [Debugger](#debugger)
        - [Test Framework](#test-framework)
        - [Bindgen Tool](#bindgen-tool)
        - [Maven Resolver](#maven-resolver)
        - [Ballerina Shell REPL [EXPERIMENTAL]](#ballerina-shell-repl-experimental)
        - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [Standard Library](#standard-library)
        - [HTTP Module Improvements](#http-module-improvements)
        - [WebSocket Module Improvements](#websocket-module-improvements)
        - [gRPC Module Improvements](#grpc-module-improvements)
        - [Security Improvements](#security-improvements)
        - [GraphQL Module Improvements](#graphql-module-improvements)
        - [Common Changes in Messaging Modules](#common-changes-in-messaging-modules)
        - [Kafka Module Improvements](#kafka-module-improvements)
        - [NATS Module Improvements](#nats-module-improvements)
        - [NATS Streaming Module Improvements](#nats-streaming-module-improvements)

>         - [RabbitMQ Streaming Module Improvements](#rabbitmq-streaming-module-improvements)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - [RabbitMQ Module Improvements](#rabbitmq-module-improvements)
```

        - [Time Module Improvements](#time-module-improvements)
        - [Rename System Module to OS](#rename-system-module-to-os)
        - [Runtime Module Improvements](#runtime-module-improvements)
        - [Email Module Improvements](#email-module-improvements)
        - [Introduced Modules](#introduced-modules)
        - [Removed Modules](#removed-modules)
    - [Code to Cloud](#code-to-cloud)

>     - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)

Author: Shouldn't they be emphasized as "breaking changes"? @rdhananjaya

>     - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)

Reviewer 3: They should. What I meant was moving it with the "Breaking Changes" heading.

>     - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)

Reviewer 4: I went through old release notes; we seem to abandon the breaking changes section in Swan Lake release notes

>     - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)

Reviewer 3: Depends, right? If we have breaking changes that cannot be classified directly under "What's new" we have a "Breaking Changes" section.

For example, we seem to have had one for slp7.

>     - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)

Reviewer 4: I didn't see the slp7 note, so in that case we can just remove the `language` heading and move the content under breaking change?

>     - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)

Reviewer 3: Yeah, can do that too. Was wondering because there are breaking changes in the stdlib too, but they probably need to be highlighted so need their own headings.

+1 keep the breaking changes section as is and remove the just the "Language" sub-heading.

>     - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)

Author: Fixed. Thanks!

        - [Language](#language)

>     - [Taint Analyzer Update](#taint-analyzer-update)

Author: @rdhananjaya

>     - [Taint Analyzer Update](#taint-analyzer-update)

Reviewer 4: IMO this is hard to categorize under how we categorized things, this doesn't break anything so is this a breaking change? May be a new feature.

>     - [Taint Analyzer Update](#taint-analyzer-update)

Author: Fixed as per https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1730#discussion_r563278554.

#### Updating Ballerina

You can use the update tool to update to Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha as follows.

##### For Existing Users

If you are already using Ballerina, you can directly update your distribution to the Swan Lake channel using the [Ballerina Update Tool](/swan-lake/learn/keeping-ballerina-up-to-date/). To do this, first, execute the command below to get the update tool updated to its latest version. 
                        
> `bal update`

 Next, execute the command below to update to Swan Lake Alpha.

 > `bal dist pull alpha`                 

However, if you are using a Ballerina version below 1.1.0, install via the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake).

##### For New Users

If you have not installed Ballerina, then download the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake) to install.

> #### Highlights

Reviewer 5: +1.. We typically reserve this space to note major stuff

> #### Highlights

Reviewer 6: We usually have a paragraph before the bullet points.

> #### Highlights

Author: @sameerajayasoma - Can you review and update the Highlights section?

> #### Highlights

Reviewer 3: Adding a suggestion after removing/re-ordering some.

```md
#### Highlights

- Support for intersection types with errors
- Support for more match patterns in the match statement
- Support for cyclic union type descriptors
- Changes to casting and `toString`/`toBalString` with errors
- Changes to object-type and record-type inclusions
- Improved listener declaration
- The `ballerina` command has been renamed to `bal`
- Introduction of hierarchical package names
- Introduction of the `Dependencies.toml` file
- Introduction of REPL support for Ballerina via the `bal shell` command
- Improvements to developer tools such as the Language Server, Project API, Debugger, Test Framework, Bindgen Tool, Maven Resolver, and Documentation
- Improvements to the HTTP, WebSocket, gRPC, security, GraphQL, Kafka, NATS, NATS Streaming, RabbitMQ, Time, Runtime, Email, and WebSub standard library modules
- Introduction of the new Random, RegEx, TCP, UDP, and WebSubHub standard library modules
- Code action and code completion support for Code to Cloud libraries in the VS Code plugin
```

I removed the point on removed modules - IMO highlights should reflect value additions in this release and with most of the removed ones we have 1:1 replacements/alternatives, so I don't think they need to be considered as highlights. "Introduction of the new Random, RegEx, TCP, UDP, and WebSubHub standard library modules" covers most of them anyway.

Similarly I don't think we need to list minor improvements here.

For stdlib, developer tooling, etc. I think we should ideally have some specific improvements/new features - but I guess there are too many drastic changes in this release to do so. If there are some specific points, maybe we can add them here.

Depends on https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1730/files#r563528390 too.

> #### Highlights

Author: Added the above.

- The `ballerina` command is renamed to `bal`
    Now onwards, all the commands will start with `bal` E.g., `bal -v`, `bal build`, `bal dist list`.
- Introduction of hierarchical package names
    Now, the package name can take the form of `package-name := identifier(.identifer)*`.
- Introduction of the `Dependencies.toml` file
- Support for the intersection type in errors
- Support for passing closed records as rest arguments in function/method calls
- Support to define empty XML values using only the `concat` XML lang library function  
- Improved listener declarations to support classes, which return `error?` from its `init` method
- Improvements to the `match` statement
- Support for cyclic union type descriptors to directly refer to its identifier
- Improvements in error handling, casting, constructors

> - Changes on object-type and record-type inclusions

Author: Fixed.

- Improved listener declaration

> - Improvements on the lang library modules and methods

Author: Fixed.

- Improvements on the `configurable` feature
- Improvements on the Developer Tools such as the Language Server, Project API, Debugger, Test Framework, Bindgen Tool, Maven Resolver, and Documentation
- Introduction of the REPL support for Ballerina via the `bal shell` command

> - Improvements to the HTTP, WebSocket, gRPC, security, GraphQL, Kafka, NATS, NATS Streaming, RabbitMQ Streaming, Time, Runtime, and Email standard library modules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Improvements to the HTTP, WebSocket, gRPC, security, GraphQL, Kafka, NATS, NATS Streaming, RabbitMQ, Time, Runtime, and Email standard library modules
```
Remove "Streaming" from everywhere that has `RabbitMQ "Streaming" `

    }

    public isolated function immediateStop() returns error? {
    }
}

// Now a valid listener declaration.
// If the initialization returns an error, module initialization will fail.
listener Listener ln = new (8080);
```

##### Improvements to the 'match' Statement

###### Support for More Match Patterns

**List Match Pattern**
```ballerina
match v {
    var     [a, b ] => {
    // Matches lists with 2 elements.
    }    var [a, [b, c], d]|var [a, b , c, d] => {
    // Matches 
    // - lists with 3 elements where the second element is a list of 2 elements or
    // - lists with 4 elements
    }}

```

**Mapping Match Pattern**
```ballerina
match v {
    {a: "hello", b: "world"}     => {
    // Match mappings that contain the field `a` with
    // value "hello" and field `b` with value "world".
    }
{
    a:var x} => {
// Match mappings that contain the field `a`.
// The value is assigned to the variable `x`
// and can be assigned within the block.
io:println(x);
}
}
```

**Error Match Pattern**
```ballerina
match v {
    error ("Message") => {
    // Match errors with "Message" as the error message.
    }error () => {
    // Match all errors.
    }}
```

> ###### Improved Type Narrowing Within Match Statements

Author: This is correct as the first letter should be capitalized in words containing more than 5 letters.

@Samallama

> ###### Improved Type Narrowing Within Match Statements

Reviewer 3: Oh, wasn't aware of that! https://www.grammarly.com/blog/capitalization-in-the-titles/ mentions the same for prepositions. +1 to keep it as is.

Integers intValue = 5;
Integers intArray = [1, 2, 3, 4];
Integers intMap = {i: 1, j: 2};
Integers integers = [intValue, intArray, intMap];
```

##### Updated Syntax for User-Defined Error Constructions

The error constructor expression now requires the `error` keyword to construct a user-defined error.

**Previous Syntax:**
```ballerina
MyError myError = MyError("Message");
```
 
**New Syntax:**
```ballerina
MyError myError = error MyError("Message");
```

#### Changes on Casting with Errors

Errors cannot be cast away (i.e., if the value that is being cast can be an error, the type to which the cast is attempted should also have a subtype of error). 

The following was allowed previously.

```ballerina
function foo() returns string|int|error {
    return error(“Error Message”);
}

public function main() {
    string s = <string>foo(); // Cast without considering the error.
}
```

This is now disallowed and can be rewritten as follows.

```ballerina
function foo() returns string|int|error {
    return error("Error Message");
}

public function main() {
    string s = <string>checkpanic foo(); // use`checkpanic` to panic if `foo()` returns an error and then attempt the cast
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: Why are we adding this here? This is not in the doc, right?

Author: <img width="1387" alt="Screenshot 2021-01-24 at 13 13 23" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11707273/105624227-09cbb980-5e46-11eb-872c-518a32a2f0d1.png">

Reviewer 3: That is point 2. at L348.

Author: Yes, that is the one I am also referring to. Sorry, I can't find anywhere else in which this is duplicated.

Author: This seems to be fixed now.

1. Using `checkpanic` - This will preserve the `panic` behavior (but with a different error - the previous error was a cast error. Now, it will be the actual error returned by `foo()`).

    ```ballerina
    function foo() returns string|int|error {
        return error("Error Message");
    }

    public function main() {

>         string s = <string>checkpanic foo(); // use`checkpanic` to panic if `foo()` returns an error and then attempt the cast

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // Use`checkpanic` to panic if `foo()` returns an error and then attempt the cast.
        string s = <string>checkpanic foo();
```

    }
    ```

2. Using `check` - Alternatively, if the function’s return type allows returning the error, `check` can be used before attempting the cast to return the error instead of panicking.

> ```ballerina
> function foo() returns string|int|error {
>     return error(“Error Message”);
> }
> 
> public function main() returns error? {
>     string s = <string>check foo(); // use`check` to return the error if `foo()` returns an error, and then attempt the cast
> }
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```ballerina
    function foo() returns string|int|error {
        return error(“Error Message”);
    }

    public function main() returns error? {
        // Use`check` to return the error if `foo()` returns an error, and then attempt the cast.
        string s = <string>check foo();
    }
    ```
```

##### Changes on `toString` and `toBalString` with Errors

It was previously possible to call `toString()` and `toBalString()` on unions of errors and non-errors.

```ballerina
function print(any|error val) {
    string s = val.toString();
}
```

This has now been disallowed and the error scenarios need to be handled explicitly. The above example can be rewritten as follows.

```ballerina
function print(any|error val) {
    string s = val is error ? val.toString() : val.toString();
}
```

#### Changes on Object Type Inclusion with Qualifiers

> - When object type inclusion is used with an object type descriptor with qualifiers (`isolated`, `client`, `service`), it is now mandatory for the object being included also to have these qualifiers.

Reviewer 3: This change is wrong!

As mentioned in the doc, this has to be
```suggestion
- When object type inclusion is used with an object type descriptor with qualifiers (`isolated`, `client`, `service`), it is now mandatory for the including object to have these qualifiers.
```

Author: This is grammatically incorrect.  "Including" cannot be used as an adjective.

@Samallama

Reviewer 3: The spec uses "including type". There are few other places in this release note that uses the same too.

Reviewer 3: If this has to be changed it should probably be something like "the object in which the inclusion is done".

Author: +1 Changed to that. Thanks!

- Object type descriptors can no longer use object type inclusion with `readonly` classes.
- Classes can use object type inclusion with `readonly` classes only if the including classes themselves are `readonly` classes.
- The type reference in an object constructor expression can refer to a `readonly` class only if the object being constructed is `readonly`.

#### Changes on Record Type Inclusion with Rest Descriptors

Record type inclusion now copies the rest descriptor from the included type to the including type. The including type may override the rest descriptor. 

```ballerina
type Congifuration record {|
    int id;
    decimal...;
|};

type DefaultCongifuration record {|
    // The rest descriptor is also copied.
    *Congifuration;
    boolean active;
|};

DefaultCongifuration config = {
    id: 1000,
    active: true,

>     // Additional fields of type `decimal` 
>     // can be specified since the rest descriptor

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // Additional fields of type `decimal` can be specified since the rest descriptor
```

   public isolated function 'start() returns error? {
   }

   public isolated function gracefulStop() returns error? {
   }

   public isolated function immediateStop() returns error? {
   }

   public isolated function detach(service object {} s) returns error? {
   }

   public isolated function attach(service object {} s, string[]|string? name = ()) returns error? {
   }

   public function init() returns error? {
      ...
      // object init failed due to some reason
      if (object_init_failed) {
         return error("Listener initialization failed");
      }
   }
}
```

**Previous Syntax:**
```ballerina
listener lsn = new Listener();

public class Listener {
   ...
   ...
   // listener life cycle methods

   public function init() {
      ...
      // object init failed due to some reason
      if (object_init_failed) {
         panic error("Listener initialization failed");
      }
   }
}
```

##### Referring Lang Library Modules Without Using Quoted Identifiers

Lang library module prefixes can now be used without the initial quote. For example, both the approaches below are now supported.

```ballerina
int a = int:sum(1, 2);
```

```ballerina

> int a = ‘int:sum(1, 2);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
int a = 'int:sum(1, 2);
```

```

The way of overriding a langlib module is also relaxed now. For example, both the approaches below are now supported.

```ballerina
import somePackage.someModule as string;
```

and

```ballerina
import somePackage.someModule as `string;

> ```

Reviewer 3: Do we have to include this in the release note? @hasithaa @rdulmina

Reviewer: Yes, IMO it's kind of a highlight

Reviewer 3: This is probably not something commonly done though, right? And I'm not sure if we should be encouraging it.

Author: @hasithaa - WDYT?

Reviewer 6: +1, to remove it. Since this is not encouraging.

Author: Removed.

###### Introduction of the `includes` Method

A new lang library method named `includes`, which tests whether a `string` value includes another `string` value has been added to the `ballerina/lang.string` library. It accepts an optional second argument to indicate the index to start searching from. It returns `true` only if the string contains the other string at an index greater or equal to the start index. The value `false` will be returned otherwise.

```ballerina
string str = "Ballerina Programming Language";
boolean contains = str.includes("Language", 10);
```

###### Introduction of the `sleep` Method

A new `sleep` method, which pauses the execution of the current strand for a specified time in seconds has been added to the `ballerina/lang.runtime` library.

```ballerina
runtime:sleep(2.0);
```

###### Introduction of the `getStackTrace` Method

A new `getStackTrace` method has been introduced in the `ballerina/lang.runtime` library to get a stack trace for the current call stack for the specified execution point. It returns an array of stack frames. 

```ballerina
runtime:StackFrame[] stackFrames = runtime:getStackTrace();
```

###### Introduction of the `Cloneable` Type

> A new `Cloneable` type has been introduced to the `ballerina/lang.value` library. This is a cyclic union type. This type represents the values on which `clone` and `cloneReadOnly` can be applied on.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this be 
```suggestion
A new type `Cloneable` has been introduced to the `ballerina/lang.value` library. This is a cyclic union type. This type represents the values on which `clone` and `cloneReadOnly` can be applied on.
```

Reviewer 3: IMO, saying "A new `Cloneable` type" reads like `Cloneable` is a kind of type and we've introduced a new type that is of this kind.

Author: The idea is the same both ways.

Author: Changed to "a new type named `Clonable`".

```ballerina
public type Cloneable readonly|xml|Cloneable[]|map<Cloneable>|table<map<Cloneable>>;
```

#### Rename of the `ballerina/java` Module

The `ballerina/java` module is renamed to `ballerina/jballerina.java`.

#### Runtime

> New APIs are added for creating `readonly` Ballerina records and arrays from Java. 

Reviewer 3: Shall we just say 
```suggestion
New APIs are added for creating immutable Ballerina records and arrays from Java. 
```

##### Kafka Module Improvements

###### Client Changes

- The `kafka:Consumer` is separated into `kafka:Listener` (asynchronous) and `kafka:Consumer` (synchronous). 
- The return type of the `init` functions of the `kafka:Producer` and `kafka:Consumer` is changed to `Error?`. 
- The `subscribeToPattern()` of the `kafka:Consumer` is changed to `subscribeWithPattern()`.
- A new record type named `ProducerRecord` is introduced for sending messages. 

    ```ballerina
    public type ProducerRecord record {|
        string topic;
        byte[] key?;
        byte[] value;
        int timestamp?;
        int partition?;
    |};
    ```

- The `send()` method of the `kafka:Producer` is changed to `sendProducerRecord(ProducerRecord producerRecord)`. An example of sending a message with the new API is given below.

    ```ballerina
    string message = "Hello World, Ballerina";
    kafkaProducer->sendProducerRecord({ topic: "test-kafka-topic",
                                        value: message.toBytes() });
    ```

###### Service and Listener Changes

- The return type of the `kafka:Listener init` is changed to `Error?`. 

> - The `resource` functions are changed to `remote` functions in the new listener APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
We have this under common changes. Therefore removing it.

- Has a single type of service that supports the two types of remote functions below:
    - `onConsumerRecord(kafka:ConsumerRecord[] record) {}` 
    - `onConsumerRecord(kafka:Caller caller, kafka:ConsumerRecord[] record) {}`
- The `kafka:Caller` is introduced to remote functions to commit offsets of the consumed records.
- The new syntax with the service changes is given below.

    ```ballerina
    listener kafka:Listener kafkaListener = new (consumerConfigs);

> 
>     service kafka:Service on kafkaListener {
>     remote function onConsumerRecord(kafka:Caller caller, kafka:ConsumerRecord[] records) {
>         // Process consumed records
>         }
>     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    service kafka:Service on kafkaListener {
        remote function onConsumerRecord(kafka:Caller caller, kafka:ConsumerRecord[] records) {
        // Process consumed records
        }
    }
```

    ```

##### NATS Module Improvements

 - The `ballerinax/nats` module is split into two packages as `ballerinax/nats` (NATS client) and `ballerinax/stan` (NATS Streaming client).
- The `nats:Connection` is removed entirely. 
- The `nats:Producer` is renamed to `nats:Client`. 
- The return type of the `nats:Client` is changed to `Error?`.
- The `nats:Message` object is changed into a record type. 

>     ```ballerina
>     public type Message record {|
>     byte[] content;
>     string subject;
>     string replyTo?;
>     |};
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```ballerina
    public type Message record {|
           byte[] content;
           string subject;
           string replyTo?;
    |};
    ```
```
Please indent the fields of this record.

    ```ballerina
    string message = "Hello from Ballerina";

    nats:Client natsClient = check new;

    check natsClient->publishMessage({
        content: message.toBytes(),
        subject: "demo.bbe.subject"
    });
    ```

###### Service and Listener Changes

- The return type of the `nats:Listener init` is changed to `Error?`. 
- Has a single type of service that supports the two types of remote functions below:
    - `onMessage(nats:Message message) {}`  
    - `onRequest(nats:Message message) returns anydata {}` 
- A new `onRequest` function is introduced to directly reply to a message by returning a value if the `replyTo` subject is present.
- If the subject name is not given in the `@nats:ServiceConfig`, the name of the service is considered as the subject name. 
- The new syntax with the service changes is given below.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/nats;

    listener nats:Listener subscription = new;

    @nats:ServiceConfig {subject: "demo.bbe.*"}
    service nats:Service on subscription {

> 
>     remote function onMessage(nats:Message message) {
>         }
>     }
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

        remote function onMessage(nats:Message message) {
        }
    }
    ```
```

###### Client Changes

- The `nats:Connection` is removed entirely from the NATS Streaming client as well. 
- The `stan:Client` is introduced to handle the client-side functionality. 
- An example of sending messages using the new `ballerinax/stan` package to a NATS Streaming server is given below. 

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/stan;

    public function main() returns error? {
        string message = "Hello from Ballerina";
        stan:Client stanClient = check new;
        string result = check stanClient->publishMessage({
            content: message.toBytes(),
            subject: "demo"
        });
    }
    ```

###### Service and Listener Changes

- The return type of the `stan:Listener init` is `Error?`. 
- Has a single type of service that supports the `onMessage` remote function below:
    `onMessage(nats:Message message) {}`
- If the subject name is not given in the `@stan:ServiceConfig`, the name of the service is considered as the subject name. 
- The new syntax with the service changes is given below.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/stan;

    listener stan:Listener lis = new;

    @stan:ServiceConfig {subject: "demo"}

>     service stan:Service on lis {
>     remote function onMessage(stan:Message message) {
>         }
>     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    service stan:Service on lis {
        remote function onMessage(stan:Message message) {
        }
    }
```

    ```

> ##### RabbitMQ Streaming Module Improvements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### RabbitMQ Module Improvements
```

    public function main() returns error? {
        rabbitmq:Client newClient = check new;

        check newClient->queueDeclare("MyQueue");

        string message = "Hello from Ballerina";
        check newClient->publishMessage({
            content: message.toBytes(),
            routingKey: "MyQueue"
        });
    }
    ```

###### Service and Listener Changes

- The return type of the `rabbitmq:Listener init` is changed to `Error?`. 
- Has a single type of service that supports the three types of remote functions below:
     - `onMessage(rabbitmq:Message message) {}`
     - `onMessage(rabbitmq:Message message, rabbitmq:Caller caller) {}`
     - `onRequest(rabbitmq:Message message) returns anydata {}`
- A new `onRequest` function is introduced to directly reply to a message by returning a value if the `replyTo` subject is present.
- If the subject name is not given in the `@rabbitmq:ServiceConfig`, the name of the service is considered as the subject name. 
- The new syntax with the service changes is given below.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/rabbitmq;

    listener rabbitmq:Listener channelListener = new;

    @rabbitmq:ServiceConfig {queueName: "MyQueue"}

>     service rabbitmq:Service on channelListener {
>     remote function onMessage(rabbitmq:Message message) {
>         }
>     }
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    service rabbitmq:Service on channelListener {
        remote function onMessage(rabbitmq:Message message) {
        }
    }
    ```
```

- The `resource` functions are changed to `remote` functions in the new listener APIs.

- The `service` name is given as a string with the new Ballerina language changes.

- The `onMessage` method of the `email:Listener` (i.e., `new email:PopListener` and `email:ImapListener`) are changed to `onEmailMessage`.

- The `pollingInterval` field of the `email:Listener` is changed to `pollingIntervalInMillis` in the new listener APIs. That makes it consistent across other Ballerina modules, which are time durations configured in milliseconds.

- A sample POP3 listener is given below.

    **New Syntax:**

    ```ballerina
    listener email:PopListener emailListener = new ({
        host: "pop.email.com",
        username: "reader@email.com",
        password: "pass456",
        pollingIntervalInMillis: 2000,
        port: 995
    });

    service "emailObserver" on emailListener {

    remote function onEmailMessage(email:Message emailMessage) {

        }

    remote function onError(email:Error emailError) {

        }
    }
    ```

##### Introduced Modules

###### Random

This module provides functions related to random number generation.

> 

Reviewer 7: Regex module has not been added under the list of introduced modules.

Author: Added.

 > `ball dist pull alpha`                 

However, if you are using a Ballerina version below 1.1.0, install via the [installers](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).

##### For New Users

If you have not installed Ballerina, then download the [installers](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) to install.

#### Highlights

- The `ballerina` command is renamed to `bal `
    Now onwards, all the commands will start with `bal` E.g., `bal -v`, `bal build`, `bal dist list`
- Introduction of hierarchical package names
    Now, the package name can take the form of `package-name := identifier(.identifer)*`.
- Introduction of the `Dependencies.toml` file
- Support for the intersection type in erros
- Support for passing closed records as rest arguments in function/method calls
- Support to define empty XML values using only the `concat` XML lang library function  

### What is New in Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha

#### Packages

##### Introduction of Hierarchical Package Names

Now, the package name can take the form of `package-name := identifier(.identifer)*` meaning the dot (`.`) is allowed in the package name.

The following is a valid `Ballerina.toml` file.

```toml
[package]

> org = ballerinax

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
org = "ballerinax"
```

> name = observe.prometheus

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
name = "observe.prometheus"
```

> version = 1.0.0

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
version = "1.0.0"
```

```

##### Introduction of the Dependencies TOML file

> This is a dedicated file to maintain all the dependencies, which are expected to be created in the package root directory. All the dependencies, which were declared in the `Ballerina.toml` file will be moved to this file now.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
This is a dedicated file to maintain all the dependencies, which is expected to be created in the package root directory. All the dependencies, which were declared in the `Ballerina.toml` file should be moved to this file now.
```

The methods below have been removed from the `runtime` module since these methods have moved to the `lang:runtime`.

- sleep
- getCallStack

##### Email Module Improvements

###### Common Changes for Client and Server Configurations

- The `email:Email` is changed to `email:Message`.

- Attachment support is improved to support file attachments directly with its content type. The new `email:Attachment` is as follows.

    ```ballerina
    public type Attachment record {|
    string filePath;
    string contentType;
    |};
    ```

-  The `email:Message` record is modified with union-typed `string` types for `to`, `cc`, `bcc`, and `replyTo` to add flexibility. An optional `htmlBody` field is added to support the HTML body. The new record is as follows. 

    > Note how the `attachments` field is modified.

    ```ballerina
    public type Message record {|
    string|string[] to;
    string subject;
    string 'from;
    string body;
    string htmlBody?;
    string|string[] cc?;
    string|string[] bcc?;
    string|string[] replyTo?;
    string contentType?;
    map<string> headers?;
    string sender?;
    Attachment|(mime:Entity|Attachment)[] attachments?;
    |}

>     ```

Reviewer 9: Is this code formatted?

Author: Fixed.

- Self-signed certificate support is added while default SSL/TLS support is restricted to self-signed certificates with relevant configurations and CA-certified certificates. Host name verification is made mandatory for SSL/TLS support. Anyway, hostname verification can be disabled with the configuration by passing the value of the `mail.smtp.ssl.checkserveridentity` property as `”false”`.

###### Client Changes

- A new `sendEmail` method is added to the `email:SmtpClient` API to send emails directly without creating the `email:Email` record supporting extra fields as named optional parameters. An example of sending an email with the new API is given below.

    ```ballerina
    Error? response = smtpClient->sendEmail(
    toAddresses,
    subject,
    fromAddress,
    body,
    cc=ccAddresses,
    bcc=bccAddresses,
        htmlBody=htmlBody,
    contentType=contentType,
    headers={header1_name: "header1_value"},
    sender=sender,
        replyTo=replyToAddresses,
    attachments=bodyParts

>     );

Reviewer 9: Formatted?

Author: Fixed.

    import ballerina/udp;

    public function main() returns udp:Error? {
    udp:Client socketClient = check new;

    udp:Datagram datagram = {
        remoteHost: "localhost",
        remotePort : 48829,
        data : "Hello Ballerina".toBytes()
    };
    check socketClient->sendDatagram(datagram);

    readonly & udp:Datagram result = check socketClient->receiveDatagram();

    check socketClient->close();
    }
    ```

- Introduced a `ConnectClient` and a `Listener` to the new UDP module as follows.

    **ConnectClient:**

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/udp;

    public function main() returns udp:Error? {
    udp:ConnectClient socketClient = check new("localhost", 48829);

    check socketClient->writeBytes("Hello Ballerina".toBytes());

    readonly & byte[] result = check socketClient->readBytes();

    check socketClient->close();
    }
    ```

    **Listener:**

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/udp;

    service on new udp:Listener(48829) {

    remote function onBytes(readonly & byte[] data, udp:Caller caller) returns (readonly & byte[])|udp:Error? {
        return data;
    }

    remote function onError(readonly & udp:Error err) {
    }

>     }

Reviewer 9: Not formatted?

Author: Fixed.

    }
}
```

##### Support for Cyclic Union Types

Cyclic union types are now supported. A cyclic union type descriptor can directly refer to its identifier in its type descriptor.

```ballerina
type Integers int|Integers[]|map<Integers>;

Integers intValue = 5;
Integers intArray = [1, 2, 3, 4];
Integers intMap = {i: 1, j: 2};
Integers integers = [intValue, intArray, intMap];
```

##### Updated Syntax for User-Defined Error Construction

The error constructor expression now requires the `error` keyword to construct a user-defined error.

**Previous Syntax:**
```ballerina
MyError myError = MyError("Message");
```
 
**New Syntax:**
```ballerina
MyError myError = error MyError("Message");
```

#### Changes to Casting with Errors

Errors cannot be cast away (i.e., if the value that is being cast can be an error, the type to which the cast is attempted should also have a subtype of error). 

The following was allowed previously.

```ballerina
function foo() returns string|int|error {
    return error(“Error Message”);
}

public function main() {
    string s = <string>foo(); // Cast without considering the error.
}
```

This is now disallowed and can be rewritten as follows.

> ```ballerina
> function foo() returns string|int|error {
>     return error("Error Message");
> }
> 
> public function main() {
>     string s = <string>checkpanic foo(); // use`checkpanic` to panic if `foo()` returns an error and then attempt the cast
> }
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
layout: ballerina-release-notes
title: Release Note
---

### Overview of Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha 

This Alpha release includes the language features planned for the Ballerina Swan Lake release. Moreover, this release includes improvements and bug fixes to the compiler, runtime, standard library, and developer tooling. This release note lists only the features and updates added after the eighth preview of Ballerina Swan Lake.

- [Updating Ballerina](#updating-ballerina)
    - [For Existing Users](#for-existing-users)
    - [For New Users](#for-new-users)
- [Highlights](#highlights)

> - [What is new in Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha](#what-is-new-in-ballerina-swan-lake-alpha

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [What is new in Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha](#what-is-new-in-ballerina-swan-lake-alpha)
```

Author: Fixed via https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1740.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/rabbitmq;

    listener rabbitmq:Listener channelListener = new;

    @rabbitmq:ServiceConfig {queueName: "MyQueue"}
    service rabbitmq:Service on channelListener {
        remote function onMessage(rabbitmq:Message message) {
        }
    }
    ```

##### Time Module Improvements

The improvements below have been added to the `Time` module.

- Added support for commonly-used date-time formatters in the `time:format()` & `time:parse()` APIs.
- The hours, minutes, seconds, milliseconds, and zone ID parameters of the `time:createTime()` method have been made defaultable.
- Introduced a new `time:Duration` record type to represent a chunk of time.
- Modified the `time:addDuration()` and `time:subtractDuration()` methods to accept the `time:Duration` records to be added/subtracted.
- Introduced a new `time:getDifference()` method to calculate the difference between two `time:Time` records.
- Introduced a new `time:getTimezones()` method to retrieve the timezone IDs supported by the underlying native code.
- Introduced an enum to represent the days of the week and modified the `time:getWeekday()` method to return this enum.

> ##### Rename System Module to OS
> 
> The previous `system` module is now renamed to `os`. All the Operating System independent functionalities are included in this module.
> 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 10: Move to the end of the standard library section

  - The `onIntentVerification` and `onNotification` functions are removed.
  - The `onSubscriptionVerification`, `onEventNotification`, and `onSubscriptionValidationDenied` functions are introduced.
- The updated `websub:SubscriberService` sample implementation is as follows.

    ```ballerina
    listener websub:Listener testListener = new (9090);

    @websub:SubscriberServiceConfig {
        target: ["http://localhost:9191/websub/hub", "http://websubpubtopic.com"],
        leaseSeconds: 36000,
        secret: "Kslk30SNF2AChs2"
    }
    service /subscriber on testListener {
    remote function onSubscriptionValidationDenied(SubscriptionDeniedError msg) returns Acknowledgement {
        // execute subscription validation denied action
        }

    remote function onSubscriptionVerification(SubscriptionVerification msg) returns SubscriptionVerificationSuccess|
        SubscriptionVerificationError {
        // execute subscription verification action
        }

    remote function onEventNotification(ContentDistributionMessage event) {
        // execute event notification received action
        }
    }
    ```

> ##### Introduced New Modules

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
##### Introduce New Modules (Regex and Random Modules)
```

        }

    remote function onUnsubscriptionIntentVerified(VerifiedUnsubscription msg) {
        // implement action to execute on unsubscription intent verification
        }
    }    
    ```

**Hub Client Implementation**

- The `websubhub:Client` is introduced to distribute the updated content to subscribers.
- The example below is a sample use-case of the WebSub Hub Client.

```ballerina
    service / websubhubon hubListener {
    remote function onSubscriptionIntentVerified(websubhub:VerifiedSubscription msg) {

            // you can pass client config if you want 
            // say maybe retry config
            websub:HubClient hubclient = new (msg);
            check start notifySubscriber(hubclient);
        }

        function notifySubscriber(websubhub:HubClient hubclient) returns error? {
            while (true) {
                // fetch the message from MB
                check hubclient->notifyContentDistribution({content: "This is sample content delivery"});
            }
        }
    }
```

**Publisher Implementation**

The `websub:PublisherClient` is moved to the `websubhub:PublisherClient`.

> ##### Removed Modules

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
##### Remove Modules (Config, Math and Stringutils modules)
```

###### Config

The configuration use cases are now covered under the `configurable` language feature. 

###### Math

The APIs related to random number generation were moved to the new `random` module. The rest of the APIs have replacements in the `lang.float` and `lang.int` packages.

###### Stringutils

The regex-related APIs that were supported by this module have been moved to the new `regex` module. The rest of the APIs have replacements in the langlib packages.

> 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

##### Rename System Module to OS

The previous `ballerina/system` module is now renamed to `ballerina/os`. All the Operating System independent functionalities are included in this module.

```

> ###### Socket
> 
> The `socket` module was removed and got replaced by the `TCP` and `UDP` modules.
> 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 11: +1 , this is already mentioned under `UDP/TCP module improvements`

Reviewer 12: +1

        - [RabbitMQ Module Improvements](#rabbitmq-module-improvements)
        - [Time Module Improvements](#time-module-improvements)
        - [Rename System Module to OS](#rename-system-module-to-os)
        - [Runtime Module Improvements](#runtime-module-improvements)
        - [Email Module Improvements](#email-module-improvements)
        - [WebSub Module Improvements](#websub-module-improvements)
        - [Introduced New Modules](#introduced-new-modules)
        - [Removed Modules](#removed-modules)
    - [Code to Cloud](#code-to-cloud)
    - [Observability](#observability)
    - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
        - [Language](#language)
    - [Taint Analyzer Update](#taint-analyzer-update)

#### Updating Ballerina

You can use the update tool to update to Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha as follows.

##### For Existing Users

If you are already using Ballerina, you can directly update your distribution to the Swan Lake channel using the [Ballerina Update Tool](/swan-lake/learn/keeping-ballerina-up-to-date/). To do this, first, execute the command below to get the update tool updated to its latest version. 
                        

> > `bal update`

Reviewer 6: @hevayo @keizer619 @sameerajayasoma This is incorrect, Because existing users, the command is `ballerina`

Author: Fixed.

        - [Introduced New Modules](#introduced-new-modules)
        - [Removed Modules](#removed-modules)
    - [Code to Cloud](#code-to-cloud)
    - [Observability](#observability)
    - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
        - [Language](#language)
    - [Taint Analyzer Update](#taint-analyzer-update)

#### Updating Ballerina

You can use the update tool to update to Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha as follows.

##### For Existing Users

If you are already using Ballerina, you can directly update your distribution to the Swan Lake channel using the [Ballerina Update Tool](/swan-lake/learn/keeping-ballerina-up-to-date/). To do this, first, execute the command below to get the update tool updated to its latest version. 
                        
> `bal update`

 Next, execute the command below to update to Swan Lake Alpha.

 > `bal dist pull alpha`                 

However, if you are using a Ballerina version below 1.1.0, install via the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake).

##### For New Users

If you have not installed Ballerina, then download the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake) to install.

#### Highlights

- The `ballerina` command is renamed to `bal`

>     Now onwards, all the commands will start with `bal` E.g., `bal -v`, `bal build`, `bal dist list`.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't we just have L90 here? I guess there should be a separate section to describe the change.

Author: Fixed.

- Introduction of the `Dependencies.toml` file
- Support for intersection types with errors
- Improvements to the `match` statement
- Support for cyclic union type descriptors
- Changes to casting and `toString`/`toBalString` with errors
- Changes to object-type and record-type inclusions
- Improved listener declaration
- Improvements to the lang library modules 
- Improvements to the `configurable` feature
- Improvements to the Developer Tools such as the Language Server, Project API, Debugger, Test Framework, Bindgen Tool, Maven Resolver, and Documentation
- Introduction of REPL support for Ballerina via the `bal shell` command
- Improvements to the HTTP, WebSocket, gRPC, security, GraphQL, Kafka, NATS, NATS Streaming, RabbitMQ, Time, Runtime, Email, and WebSub standard library modules
- Rename the System standard library module to OS
- Introduction of the new Random, RegEx, TCP, UDP, and WebSubHub standard library modules
- Removal of the Config, Math, Stringutils, and Socket standard library modules
- Code action and code completion support for Code to Cloud libraries in the VS Code plugin

### What is New in Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha

> #### Packages

Reviewer 3: Should this section come after the language changes? @azinneera @sameerajayasoma @hasithaa

Reviewer 8: +1

Author: Fixed.

```ballerina
runtime:StackFrame[] stackFrames = runtime:getStackTrace();
```

###### Introduction of the `Cloneable` Type

A new type named `Cloneable` has been introduced to the `ballerina/lang.value` library. This is a cyclic union type. This type represents the values on which `clone` and `cloneReadOnly` can be applied on.

```ballerina
public type Cloneable readonly|xml|Cloneable[]|map<Cloneable>|table<map<Cloneable>>;
```

#### Rename of the `ballerina/java` Module

The `ballerina/java` module is renamed to `ballerina/jballerina.java`.

#### Runtime

New APIs are added for creating immutable Ballerina records and arrays from Java. 

The new `ValueCreator.createReadonlyArrayValue` API creates a new `readonly` Ballerina array from the given Java array and the `ValueCreator.createReadonlyRecordValue` creates a new `readonly` Ballerina record.

##### Configurable

The `configurable` feature is improved to support variables with decimal and arrays of `int`, `float`, `string`, `boolean`, and `decimal` types.

> 

Reviewer 13: ````suggestion

For example if the `Config.toml` file contains the following TOML arrays, 

```toml
ints = [1,2,3]
strings = ["red", "yellow", "green"]
```
they can be loaded with following configurable variables.

```ballerina
configurable int[] & readonly ints = ?;
configurable string[] & readonly strings = ?;
```

````

    ```ballerina
    grpc:StreamingClient streamingClient = check endpoint->chat();
    // Send messages
    check streamingClient->send(msg);
    // Receives messages
    var result = streamingClient->receive();
    ```
- Added the support to send/receive custom headers in the request/response path.

###### Protobuf Tool

- Generate a custom caller object from the Protobuf tool
- Generate a custom streaming client from the Protobuf tool
- Update the Protobuf tool to generate specific types using langlib data types

##### Security Improvements

Ballerina listener authentication and authorization, and client authentication were completely redesigned. The new design is compatible with most of the standard libraries like HTTP, gRPC, WebSocket etc.,

###### HTTP Listener Authentication and Authorization

A Ballerina HTTP listener can be configured to authenticate and authorize the inbound requests. Ballerina has built-in support for the following listener authentication mechanisms.

- Basic authentication
- LDAP user store
- JWT authentication
- OAuth2 authentication

> For more information, see [Authentication and Authorization](/swan-lake/learn/security/authentication-and-authorization/#http-listener-authentication-and-authorization).

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
For more information, see [HTTP Listener Authentication and Authorization](/swan-lake/learn/security/authentication-and-authorization/#http-listener-authentication-and-authorization).
```

###### HTTP Client Authentication

The Ballerina HTTP client can be configured to send authentication information to the endpoint being invoked. Ballerina has built-in support for the following client authentication mechanisms.

- Basic authentication
- JWT authentication
- Self-signed JWT
- Bearer token
- OAuth2 authentication
- Client credentials grant type
- Password grant type
- Direct token type

> For more information, see [Authentication and Authorization](/swan-lake/learn/security/authentication-and-authorization/#http-client-authentication).

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
For more information, see [HTTP Client Authentication](/swan-lake/learn/security/authentication-and-authorization/#http-client-authentication).
```

            check start notifySubscriber(hubclient);
        }

        function notifySubscriber(websubhub:HubClient hubclient) returns error? {
            while (true) {
                // fetch the message from MB
                check hubclient->notifyContentDistribution({content: "This is sample content delivery"});
            }
        }
    }
```

**Publisher Implementation**

The `websub:PublisherClient` is moved to the `websubhub:PublisherClient`.

##### Removed Modules

###### Config

The configuration use cases are now covered under the `configurable` language feature. 

###### Math

The APIs related to random number generation were moved to the new `random` module. The rest of the APIs have replacements in the `lang.float` and `lang.int` packages.

###### Stringutils

The regex-related APIs that were supported by this module have been moved to the new `regex` module. The rest of the APIs have replacements in the langlib packages.

###### Socket

The `socket` module was removed and got replaced by the `TCP` and `UDP` modules.

#### Observability

- A new extension model, which separates each extension into a separate module is introduced.

>     - Observability is not included into the final JAR by default. It can be added with the following configuration in the `Ballerina.toml`

Reviewer 3: When we create a new project, the `Ballerina.toml` file contains the following entry, right? So is it correct to say it is not included by default? @nadundesilva

Reviewer 15: Yes the entry is included in the `Ballerina.toml` if we create using `ballerina new` command. However, if the entry is not present, the default behavior is to not include Observability.

Reviewer 3: What if we say 
```suggestion
    - Observability can be included in the final JAR by adding the following configuration in the `Ballerina.toml` file.
```

    - [For New Users](#for-new-users)
- [Highlights](#highlights)
- [What is new in Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha](#what-is-new-in-ballerina-swan-lake-alpha)
    - [Packages](#packages)
        - [Introduction of Hierarchical Package Names](#introduction-of-hierarchical-package-names)
        - [Introduction of the Dependencies TOML file](#introduction-of-the-dependencies-toml-file)
        - [Support to Accept an Empty Ballerina TOML File](#support-to-accept-an-empty-ballerina-toml-file)
    - [Language](#language)
        - [Intersection Type Support for Errors](#intersection-type-support-for-errors)
        - [Support for Passing a Closed Record as the Rest Argument](#support-for-passing-a-closed-record-as-the-rest-argument)
        - [Support for the Empty XML Value](#support-for-the-empty-xml-value)
        - [Improvements to the Match Statement](#improvements-to-the-match-statement)
        - [Support for Cyclic Union Types](#support-for-cyclic-union-types)
        - [Updated Syntax for User-Defined Error Construction](#updated-syntax-for-user-defined-error-construction)
        - [Changes to Casting with Errors](#changes-to-casting-with-errors)

>         - [Changes to `toString` and `toBalString` with Errors](#changes-to-toString-and-toBalString-with-errors)

Reviewer 9: This sub heading link is not showing up on the MD preview.

Author: Fixed.

    - [Observability](#observability)
    - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
        - [Language](#language)
    - [Taint Analyzer Update](#taint-analyzer-update)

#### Updating Ballerina

You can use the update tool to update to Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha as follows.

##### For Existing Users

If you are already using Ballerina, you can directly update your distribution to the Swan Lake channel using the [Ballerina Update Tool](/swan-lake/learn/keeping-ballerina-up-to-date/). To do this, first, execute the command below to get the update tool updated to its latest version. 
                        
> `bal update`

 Next, execute the command below to update to Swan Lake Alpha.

 > `bal dist pull alpha`                 

However, if you are using a Ballerina version below 1.1.0, install via the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake).

##### For New Users

If you have not installed Ballerina, then download the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake) to install.

#### Highlights

- The `ballerina` command is renamed to `bal`
    Now onwards, all the commands will start with `bal` E.g., `bal -v`, `bal build`, `bal dist list`.
- Introduction of hierarchical package names

>     Now, the package name can take the form of `package-name := identifier(.identifer)*`.

Reviewer 9: Looks like this line break is not visible in the MD view. They appear in the same line without a period.

Reviewer 5: Do we need multi sentence descriptions for this section anyways?

Reviewer 9: We can go with single line sentence.

Author: Fixed.

- Introduction of the `Dependencies.toml` file
- Support for intersection types with errors
- Support for passing closed records as rest arguments in function/method calls

> - Support for the empty XML value

Reviewer 5: Don't sound like highlights

Author: Removed.

> - Improvements to the `match` statement

Reviewer 5: Better if this can be reworded in a way that expresses in what way was the `match` statement improved, rather than simply saying improvements.

Author: @pubudu91 - Please add your suggestion as a comment for me to commit directly.

Reviewer 3: There are two changes to the match statement but I think we can consider only one as a highlight
```suggestion
- Support for more match patterns in the match statement
```

- Support for cyclic union type descriptors
- Changes to casting and `toString`/`toBalString` with errors
- Changes to object-type and record-type inclusions
- Improved listener declaration
- Improvements to the lang library modules 

> - Improvements to the `configurable` feature

Reviewer 5: Don't sound like highlights.

Author: This is a highlight IMO. @sameerajayasoma - WDYT?

Author: Fixed via https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1730/commits/10ad0aa09c458ac578661c482e5197ffa98524bc

> - Improvements to the Developer Tools such as the Language Server, Project API, Debugger, Test Framework, Bindgen Tool, Maven Resolver, and Documentation

Reviewer 5: Better if this can be reworded. Also, the Maven Resolver is not a user-facing tool right? And the Project API also, did we mention it in the previous release?

Author: @pubudu91 - Please add your suggestion as a comment for me to commit directly.

Author: Fixed via https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1730/commits/10ad0aa09c458ac578661c482e5197ffa98524bc.

- Introduction of REPL support for Ballerina via the `bal shell` command
- Improvements to the HTTP, WebSocket, gRPC, security, GraphQL, Kafka, NATS, NATS Streaming, RabbitMQ, Time, Runtime, Email, and WebSub standard library modules

> - Rename the System standard library module to OS

Reviewer 5: Not a highlight

Author: This is a highlight IMO. @sameerajayasoma - WDYT?

Author: Removed via https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1730/commits/10ad0aa09c458ac578661c482e5197ffa98524bc.

- Introduction of the new Random, RegEx, TCP, UDP, and WebSubHub standard library modules

> - Removal of the Config, Math, Stringutils, and Socket standard library modules

Reviewer 5: Not a highlight. Only include new features/notable changes.

Author: This is a highlight IMO. @sameerajayasoma - WDYT?

Author: Removed.

> - VSCode plugin support for code actions and code completions on Code To Cloud

Reviewer 5: Will this make sense to an end user? How about "Code action and code completion support for Code to Cloud libraries in the VS Code plugin"?

Author: Updated.

> - Taint analyzer related updates

Reviewer 5: Not a highlight right? IINM, we just made taint analyzer optional?

Author: Removed.

```ballerina
runtime:StackFrame[] stackFrames = runtime:getStackTrace();
```

###### Introduction of the `Cloneable` Type

A new type named `Cloneable` has been introduced to the `ballerina/lang.value` library. This is a cyclic union type. This type represents the values on which `clone` and `cloneReadOnly` can be applied on.

```ballerina
public type Cloneable readonly|xml|Cloneable[]|map<Cloneable>|table<map<Cloneable>>;
```

#### Rename of the `ballerina/java` Module

The `ballerina/java` module is renamed to `ballerina/jballerina.java`.

#### Runtime

New APIs are added for creating immutable Ballerina records and arrays from Java. 

The new `ValueCreator.createReadonlyArrayValue` API creates a new `readonly` Ballerina array from the given Java array and the `ValueCreator.createReadonlyRecordValue` creates a new `readonly` Ballerina record.

##### Configurable

The `configurable` feature is improved to support variables with decimal and arrays of `int`, `float`, `string`, `boolean`, and `decimal` types.

> Configurations can be provided at runtime using the `Config.toml` file in the current working directory or by exporting the file path using the `BALCONFIGFILE` environment variable. For the tests, configurations can be overridden by having the `Config.toml` file inside the tests directory.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
Configurations can be provided at runtime using the `Config.toml` file in the current working directory or by exporting the file path using the `BALCONFIGFILE` environment variable. For the tests, configurations can be overridden by having a `Config.toml` file inside the tests directory.
```

```bash
> bal shall
Welcome to Ballerina Shell REPL.
Type /exit to exit and /help to list available commands.

=$ any a = 10

=$ a is int

=$ function add(int x, int y) returns int => x + y

=$ add(3, 4)
7

=$ /exit 
| Bye!!!
```

##### Documentation

Now, documentation URLs follow the `orgName/packageName/version/moduleName` structure.

#### Standard Library

##### HTTP Module Improvements

###### Allow Multiple Return Types for the Resource Method

The `resource` method can return anydata type, an `http:Response` object, `StatusCode` records along with `error?`. Instead of using an `http:Caller`, the response can be sent similarly by returning from the method. 

When returning anydata, the `@http:Payload` annotation can be used to specify the content type of the response additionally. Otherwise, the default content type of the respective return value type will be added. 

```ballerina
service on new http:Listener(8080) {
    resource function get hello () returns string {
        return "Hello"; // Content type defaults to `text/plain`
    }

>     resource function get goodbye () returns @http:Payload {mediaType: "application/json"} string {

Reviewer 17: ```suggestion
    resource function get goodbye () returns @http:Payload {mediaType: "text/plain+id"} string {
```

**New Syntax:**

```ballerina
http:Listener|http:ListenerError ep = new (9090);
http:Client|http:ClientError myClient = new ("http://localhost:9100", {httpVersion: "2.0"});
```

###### Improve the `getHeader()` and `getHeaders()` return types to Union with Error

**New Syntax:**

```ballerina
string|error value = request.getHeader("Content-Type"); 
string[]|error values = request.getHeaders("Accept");
```

###### Remove Status Code Related `http:Caller` Methods

The `http:Caller` remote methods such as `ok()`, `created()`, `accepted()`, `noContent()`, `badRequest()`, `notFound()`, and `internalServerError()` were removed along with the response record introduction

##### WebSocket Module Improvements

- The Websocket module has been moved out of the HTTP module. Therefore, the import should be changed from `ballerina/http` to `ballerina/websocket`.
- Introduced a new listener as follows for the WebSocket module.
`listener websocket:Listener wsListener = new(9090);`
- This module now has the two types of services below that are mandatory to work with WebSockets. 

>     - `websocket:UpgradeService` - This handles the HTTP to WebSocket upgrade. This service has a single get resource, which returns a `websocket:Service` or an error. Optionally, this takes in the `http:Request` parameter. To accept the WebSocket upgrade, this resource should return a `websocket:Service`. Or else, to cancel the WebSocket upgrade, it must return a `websocket:Error`.

Reviewer 18: ```suggestion
    - `websocket:UpgradeService` - This handles the HTTP to WebSocket upgrade. This service has a single get resource, which returns a `websocket:Service` or an error. Optionally, this takes in the `http:Request` parameter. To accept the WebSocket upgrade, this resource should return a `websocket:Service`. Or else, to cancel the WebSocket upgrade, it must return a `websocket:UpgradeError`.
```

- Introduced a new `time:getDifference()` API to calculate the difference between two `time:Time` records.
- Introduced a new `time:getTimezones()` API to retrieve the timezone IDs supported by the underlying native code.
- Introduced an enum to represent the days of the week and modified the `time:getWeekday()` API to return this enum.

##### Rename System Module to OS

The previous `system` module is now renamed to `os`. All the Operating System independent functionalities are included in this module.

##### Runtime Module Improvements

The methods below have been removed from the `runtime` module since these methods have moved to the `lang:runtime` lang library.

- `sleep`
- `getCallStack`

##### Email Module Improvements

###### Common Changes for Client and Server Configurations

- The `email:Email` is changed to `email:Message`.

- Attachment support is improved to support file attachments directly with its content type. The new `email:Attachment` is as follows.

```ballerina
public type Attachment record {|
    string filePath;
    string contentType;
|};
```

> -  The `email:Message` record is modified with union-typed `string` types for `to`, `cc`, `bcc`, and `replyTo` to add flexibility. An optional `htmlBody` field is added to support the HTML body. The new record is as follows. 

Reviewer 12: +1

    > Note how the `attachments` field is modified.

    ```ballerina
    public type Message record {|
        string|string[] to;
        string subject;
        string 'from;
        string body;
        string htmlBody?;
        string|string[] cc?;
        string|string[] bcc?;
        string|string[] replyTo?;
        string contentType?;
        map<string> headers?;
        string sender?;
        Attachment|(mime:Entity|Attachment)[] attachments?;
    |}
    ```

> - The `enableSsl` boolean property is replaced with the `security` parameter to enable different types of transport-layer security. This new parameter is an enumeration with the `START_TLS_AUTO|START_TLS_ALWAYS|START_TLS_NEVER|SSL` options. The default/undefined value is `SSL`.

Author: @ldclakmal

> - The `enableSsl` boolean property is replaced with the `security` parameter to enable different types of transport-layer security. This new parameter is an enumeration with the `START_TLS_AUTO|START_TLS_ALWAYS|START_TLS_NEVER|SSL` options. The default/undefined value is `SSL`.

Author: @Maninda

> - The `enableSsl` boolean property is replaced with the `security` parameter to enable different types of transport-layer security. This new parameter is an enumeration with the `START_TLS_AUTO|START_TLS_ALWAYS|START_TLS_NEVER|SSL` options. The default/undefined value is `SSL`.

Reviewer 12: +1

- Self-signed certificate support is added while default SSL/TLS support is restricted to self-signed certificates with relevant configurations and CA-certified certificates. Hostname verification is made mandatory for SSL/TLS support. Anyway, hostname verification can be disabled with the configuration by passing the value of the `mail.smtp.ssl.checkserveridentity` property as `”false”`.

###### Client Changes

- A new `sendEmail` method is added to the `email:SmtpClient` API to send emails directly without creating the `email:Email` record supporting extra fields as named optional parameters. An example of sending an email with the new API is given below.

    ```ballerina
    Error? response = smtpClient->sendEmail(toAddresses, subject, fromAddress, body, cc = ccAddresses, bcc = bccAddresses, 
    htmlBody = htmlBody, contentType = contentType, headers = {header1_name: "header1_value"}, sender = sender, replyTo = 

>     replyToAddresses, attachments = bodyParts);

Author: @Maninda

>     replyToAddresses, attachments = bodyParts);

Reviewer 12: +1

>     replyToAddresses, attachments = bodyParts);

Author: Fixed.

    ```

- The `read` method of `email:ImapClient`, `email:PopClient`, and `email:Listener` (i.e., `new email:PopListener` and `email:ImapListener`) are changed to `receiveEmailMessage`.

- All client initializations return an `email:Error` when an error occurs during the initialization.

###### Service and Listener Related Changes

- All listener initializations return an `email:Error` when an error occurs during the initialization.

- The `email:Listener` is split into the `email:PopListener` and `email:ImapListener`. Therefore, the `protocol` field is removed from the new protocol-specific listeners. The `email:PopConfig` or `email:ImapConfig` that were used as fields for the `email:Listener` are not required for the new API implementation. Protocol configuration related fields are made parts of the new listeners.

> - The `resource` functions are changed to `remote` functions in the new listener APIs.

Author: @Maninda

> - The `resource` functions are changed to `remote` functions in the new listener APIs.

Reviewer 12: +1

- The `service` name is given as a string with the new Ballerina language changes.

> - The `onMessage` method of the `email:Listener` (i.e., `new email:PopListener` and `email:ImapListener`) are changed to `onEmailMessage`.

Author: @Maninda

> - The `onMessage` method of the `email:Listener` (i.e., `new email:PopListener` and `email:ImapListener`) are changed to `onEmailMessage`.

Reviewer 12: +1

> - The `pollingInterval` field of the `email:Listener` is changed to `pollingIntervalInMillis` in the new listener APIs. That makes it consistent across other Ballerina modules, which are time durations configured in milliseconds.

Author: @Maninda

> - The `pollingInterval` field of the `email:Listener` is changed to `pollingIntervalInMillis` in the new listener APIs. That makes it consistent across other Ballerina modules, which are time durations configured in milliseconds.

Reviewer 12: +1

- A sample POP3 listener is given below.

    **New Syntax:**

    ```ballerina
    listener email:PopListener emailListener = new ({
        host: "pop.email.com",
        username: "reader@email.com",
        password: "pass456",
        pollingIntervalInMillis: 2000,
        port: 995
    });

    service "emailObserver" on emailListener {

    remote function onEmailMessage(email:Message emailMessage) {

        }

    remote function onError(email:Error emailError) {

>         }

Author: @Maninda

>         }

Reviewer 12: +1

    }
    ```

##### WebSub Module Improvements

###### Hub-Related Changes

- Default implementation for the `websub:Hub` has been removed from the module.
- API specification for the WebSub Hub is moved to the [`websubhub` module](#websubhub).

##### Publisher-Related Changes

- The implementation related to the `websub:PublisherClient` is moved to the `websubhub` module.

##### Subscriber-Related Changes

> - The two new configurations below are introduced to the `@websub:SubscriberServiceConfiguration`.

Reviewer 19: +1 

Can't we simply say "The two new configurations below are introduced to the `@websub:SubscriberServiceConfiguration` for hub/topic discovery."

> - The two new configurations below are introduced to the `@websub:SubscriberServiceConfiguration`.

Author: Fixed.

  - `accept` - The expected media type
  - `acceptLanguage` - The expected language type
- API specification for the `@websub:SubscriberService` is updated with the changes below.

>   - The `onIntentVerification` and `onNotification` functions are removed.

Author: @ayeshLK

>   - The `onIntentVerification` and `onNotification` functions are removed.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
  - The `onIntentVerification` and `onNotification` methods are removed.
```

>   - The `onSubscriptionVerification`, `onEventNotification`, and `onSubscriptionValidationDenied` functions are introduced.

Reviewer 19: +1

- The updated `websub:SubscriberService` sample implementation is as follows.

    ```ballerina
    listener websub:Listener testListener = new (9090);

    @websub:SubscriberServiceConfig {
        path: "/websub",

>         subscribeOnStartUp: false,

Reviewer 19: @ayeshLK Let's remove `path` and `subscriberOnStartup` configs. I am not sure if path is a mandatory config though as discussed we need to remove it in the next release.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
```

        target: ["http://localhost:9191/websub/hub", "http://websubpubtopic.com"],
        leaseSeconds: 36000,
        secret: "Kslk30SNF2AChs2"
    }

>     service / subscriberon testListener {

Reviewer 19: should be `service /subscriber on testListener` ?

    remote function onSubscriptionValidationDenied(SubscriptionDeniedError msg) returns Acknowledgement {
        // execute subscription validation denied action
        }

    remote function onSubscriptionVerification(SubscriptionVerification msg) returns SubscriptionVerificationSuccess|
        SubscriptionVerificationError {
        // execute subscription verification action
        }

    remote function onEventNotification(ContentDistributionMessage event) {
        // execute event notification received action
        }

>     }

Author: @ayeshLK

    ```

##### Introduced New Modules

###### Random

This module provides functions related to random number generation.

###### RegEx

> This module provides RegEx utilities such as checking whether a string matches a given RegEx, replacing substrings, and splitting strings based on a RegEx.

Reviewer 10: +1

###### TCP

The Socket module is replaced by the TCP module. Therefore, the import statement needs to be changed from `ballerina/socket` to `ballerina/tcp`.

New APIs for the client and listener are introduced in the TCP module.

**Client Changes**

> - The initialization changed from `socket:Client socketClient = new ({ host: "localhost", port: 61598 }); ` to `tcp:Client socketClient = check new ("localhost", 3000);`, which returns the `tcp:Error` if there an error occurs while initializing the client.

Reviewer 11: +1

> - The `write` method name changed to `writeBytes`. You don’t have to explicitly write a while loop to ensure the data is written completely as before. Instead, the `writeBytes` method ensures to write the data completely.

Reviewer 12: +1

> - The `read` method name changed to `readBytes`, which now returns a `readonly & byte[]` instead of a `[byte[], int]` tuple.

Reviewer 12: +1

**New Syntax:**

```ballerina
import ballerina/tcp;

public function main() returns tcp:Error? {

    tcp:Client socketClient = check new ("localhost", 3000);

    check socketClient->writeBytes(“Hello Ballerina”.toBytes());

    readonly & byte[] receivedData = check socketClient->readBytes();

    check socketClient->close();
}
```

**Listener Changes**

**New Syntax:**

```ballerina
listener tcp:Listener socketListener = new (9090);
```

> The service type with resource functions is removed from the module. The new implementation has the following two types of services.

Reviewer 12: +1

> 1. The `tcp:Service`, which handles a TCP connection. This service has a predefined `onConnect` remote method that returns a `tcp:ConnectionService` or `tcp:Error?`.

Reviewer 12: +1

> 2. The `tcp: ConnectionService`, which handles the traffic between the client and server. This can have the following optional remote methods.

Reviewer 12: +1

    - `remote function onBytes(readonly & byte[] data) returns Error? { }`
    - `remote function onClose() returns Error? { }`
    - `remote function onError(readonly & Error err) returns Error? { }`

> The `read` method is removed from the `tcp:Caller`. Also, the `write` methods of the `Caller` renamed to `writeBytes`, which is similar to the Client’s `writeBytes` method.

Reviewer 12: +1

**New Syntax:**

```ballerina
import ballerina/tcp;

service on new tcp:Listener(3000) {

> remote function onConnect(tcp:Caller caller) returns tcp:ConnectionService {

Reviewer 12: +1

        return new TCPService(caller);
    }
}

service class TCPService {
    tcp:Caller caller;

    public function init(tcp:Caller c) {
        self.caller = c;
    }

    remote function onBytes(readonly & byte[] data) returns byte[]|tcp:Error? {
        return data;
    }

    remote function onClose() returns tcp:Error? {
    }

    remote function onError(readonly & tcp:Error err) returns tcp:Error? {
    }
}
```

###### UDP

The UDP module has been moved out of the Socket module. Therefore, it is required to change the import from `ballerina/socket` to `ballerina/udp`.

**Client Changes**

> - Initialization changed from `socket:UdpClient socketClient = new(localAddress = {host: "localhost", port: 8080 });` to `udp:Client socketClient = check new;`. This returns the `udp:Error` if an error occurred while initializing the client.

Reviewer 11: +1

> - The `sendTo` method name changed to `sendDatagram`. This takes a `udp:Datagram` as a parameter. You don’t need to explicitly write a while loop to ensure the data is written completely. The `writeBytes` method ensures to write the data completely.

Reviewer 12: What if we write as "The name of the `sendTo` method is changed to" or "The name of the `sendTo` method was changed to"?

> - The `receiveFrom` method name changed to `receiveDatagram`. This now returns a `readonly & udp:Datagram` instead of a `[byte[], int, socket:Address]` tuple.

Reviewer 12: +1

    **New Syntax:**

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/udp;

    public function main() returns udp:Error? {
        udp:Client socketClient = check new;
        udp:Datagram datagram = {
            remoteHost: "localhost",
            remotePort: 48829,
            data: "Hello Ballerina".toBytes()
        };
        check socketClient->sendDatagram(datagram);
        readonly & udp:Datagram result = check socketClient->receiveDatagram();
        check socketClient->close();
    }
    ```

> - Introduced a `ConnectClient` and a `Listener` to the new UDP module as follows.

Reviewer 12: +1

    **ConnectClient:**

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/udp;

    public function main() returns udp:Error? {
        udp:ConnectClient socketClient = check new ("localhost", 48829);
        check socketClient->writeBytes("Hello Ballerina".toBytes());
        readonly & byte[] result = check socketClient->readBytes();
        check socketClient->close();
    }
    ```

    **Listener:**

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/udp;

    service on new udp:Listener(48829) {

    remote function onBytes(readonly & byte[] data, udp:Caller caller) returns (readonly & byte[])|udp:Error? {
            return data;
        }

    remote function onError(readonly & udp:Error err) {

>         }

Reviewer 12: +1

    }
    ```

###### WebSubHub 

> - This module contains the API specifications and implementations related to the WebSub Hub, WebSub Hub Client and WebSub Publisher.

Author: @ayeshLK

> - This module contains the API specifications and implementations related to the WebSub Hub, WebSub Hub Client and WebSub Publisher.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
- This module contains the API specifications and implementations related to the WebSub Hub, WebSub Hub Client, and WebSub Publisher.
```

- This is an inter-dependent module for the `websub` module.

**Hub Implementation**

- The default `websub:Hub` implementation has been removed and language-specific API abstraction is defined in the `websubhub:Service`.

> - Updated the WebSub Hub sample implementation to comply with the new API specification as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Updated WebSub Hub sample implementation to comply with the new API specification is as follows.
```

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
- Updated WebSub Hub sample implementation to comply with the new API specification is as follows.
```

    ```ballerina
    listener websubhub:Listener hubListener = new (9001);

>     service / websubhubon hubListener {
> 
>     remote function onRegisterTopic(TopicRegistration message) returns TopicRegistrationSuccess|TopicRegistrationError {
>         // implement action to execute on topic-registration
>         }
> 
>     remote function onDeregisterTopic(TopicDeregistration message) returns TopicDeregistrationSuccess|TopicDeregistrationError {
>         // implement action to execute on topic-deregistration
>         }
> 
>     remote function onUpdateMessage(UpdateMessage msg) returns Acknowledgement|UpdateMessageError {
>         // implement action to execute on content-update for topic
>         }
> 
>     remote function onSubscription(Subscription msg) returns SubscriptionAccepted|SubscriptionPermanentRedirect|
>         SubscriptionTemporaryRedirect|BadSubscriptionError|InternalSubscriptionError {
>         // implement action to execute on new subscription
>         }
> 
>     remote function onSubscriptionValidation(Subscription msg) returns SubscriptionDeniedError? {
>         // implement action to execute on subscription validation
>         }
> 
>     remote function onSubscriptionIntentVerified(VerifiedSubscription msg) {
>         // implement action to execute on subscription intent verification
>         }
> 
>     remote function onUnsubscription(Unsubscription msg) returns UnsubscriptionAccepted|BadUnsubscriptionError|
>         InternalUnsubscriptionError {
>         // implement action to execute on unsubscription
>         }
> 
>     remote function onUnsubscriptionValidation(Unsubscription msg) returns UnsubscriptionDeniedError? {
>         // implement action to execute on unsubscription validation
>         }
> 
>     remote function onUnsubscriptionIntentVerified(VerifiedUnsubscription msg) {
>         // implement action to execute on unsubscription intent verification
>         }
>     }    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    service / websubhub on hubListener {
        remote function onRegisterTopic(websubhub:TopicRegistration message) 
                returns websubhub:TopicRegistrationSuccess|websubhub:TopicRegistrationError {
            // implement action to execute on topic-registration
        }
        
        remote function onDeregisterTopic(websubhub:TopicDeregistration message) 
                returns websubhub:TopicDeregistrationSuccess|websubhub:TopicDeregistrationError {
            // implement action to execute on topic-deregistration
        }

        remote function onUpdateMessage(websubhub:UpdateMessage msg) 
                returns websubhub:Acknowledgement|websubhub:UpdateMessageError {
            // implement action to execute on content-update for topic
        }

        remote function onSubscription(websubhub:Subscription msg) 
                returns websubhub:SubscriptionAccepted|websubhub:SubscriptionPermanentRedirect|
                    websubhub:SubscriptionTemporaryRedirect|websubhub:BadSubscriptionError|
                    websubhub:InternalSubscriptionError {
            // implement action to execute on new subscription
        }

        remote function onSubscriptionValidation(websubhub:Subscription msg) 
                returns websubhub:SubscriptionDeniedError? {
            // implement action to execute on subscription validation
        }
    
        remote function onSubscriptionIntentVerified(websubhub:VerifiedSubscription msg) {
            // implement action to execute on subscription intent verification
        }

        remote function onUnsubscription(websubhub:Unsubscription msg) 
                returns websubhub:UnsubscriptionAccepted|websubhub:BadUnsubscriptionError|
                    websubhub:InternalUnsubscriptionError {
            // implement action to execute on unsubscription
        }
    
        remote function onUnsubscriptionValidation(websubhub:Unsubscription msg) 
                returns websubhub:UnsubscriptionDeniedError? {
            // implement action to execute on unsubscription validation
        }
        
        remote function onUnsubscriptionIntentVerified(websubhub:VerifiedUnsubscription msg) {
            // implement action to execute on unsubscription intent verification
        }
    }   
```

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
    service /websubhub on hubListener {
        remote function onRegisterTopic(websubhub:TopicRegistration message) 
                returns websubhub:TopicRegistrationSuccess|websubhub:TopicRegistrationError {
            // implement action to execute on topic-registration
        }
        
        remote function onDeregisterTopic(websubhub:TopicDeregistration message) 
                returns websubhub:TopicDeregistrationSuccess|websubhub:TopicDeregistrationError {
            // implement action to execute on topic-deregistration
        }
        remote function onUpdateMessage(websubhub:UpdateMessage msg) 
                returns websubhub:Acknowledgement|websubhub:UpdateMessageError {
            // implement action to execute on content-update for topic
        }
        remote function onSubscription(websubhub:Subscription msg) 
                returns websubhub:SubscriptionAccepted|websubhub:SubscriptionPermanentRedirect|
                    websubhub:SubscriptionTemporaryRedirect|websubhub:BadSubscriptionError|
                    websubhub:InternalSubscriptionError {
            // implement action to execute on new subscription
        }
        remote function onSubscriptionValidation(websubhub:Subscription msg) 
                returns websubhub:SubscriptionDeniedError? {
            // implement action to execute on subscription validation
        }
    
        remote function onSubscriptionIntentVerified(websubhub:VerifiedSubscription msg) {
            // implement action to execute on subscription intent verification
        }
        remote function onUnsubscription(websubhub:Unsubscription msg) 
                returns websubhub:UnsubscriptionAccepted|websubhub:BadUnsubscriptionError|
                    websubhub:InternalUnsubscriptionError {
            // implement action to execute on unsubscription
        }
    
        remote function onUnsubscriptionValidation(websubhub:Unsubscription msg) 
                returns websubhub:UnsubscriptionDeniedError? {
            // implement action to execute on unsubscription validation
        }
        
        remote function onUnsubscriptionIntentVerified(websubhub:VerifiedUnsubscription msg) {
            // implement action to execute on unsubscription intent verification
        }
    }   
```

    ```

**Hub Client Implementation**

> - The `websubhub:Client` is introduced to distribute the updated content to subscribers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `websubhub:Client` is introduced to distribute the updated content to subscribers.
```

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
- `websubhub:Client` is introduced to distribute the updated content to subscribers.
```

- The example below is a sample use-case of the WebSub Hub Client.

```ballerina

>     service / websubhubon hubListener {

Reviewer 3: There are multiple issues in this sample? Shall we check and fix? @ayeshLK  Please see comments in-line.

```suggestion
    service / websubhub on hubListener {
```

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
    service /websubhub on hubListener {
```

    remote function onSubscriptionIntentVerified(websubhub:VerifiedSubscription msg) {

>             // you can pass client config if you want 
>             // say maybe retry config

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            // Client configuration (e.g., retry config) can be passed if required.
```

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
            // Client configuration (e.g., retry config) can be passed if required.
```

>             websub:HubClient hubclient = new (msg);

Reviewer 3: `HubClient` is in `websubhub`? Need to add an `error?` return and use check here too.

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
            websubhub:HubClient hubclient = check new (msg);
```

>             check start notifySubscriber(hubclient);

Reviewer 3: Needs to add error to the return type to use check.

There's also a variable assignment required error here.

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
            var responseFuture =  start notifySubscriber(hubclient);
```

        }

        function notifySubscriber(websubhub:HubClient hubclient) returns error? {
            while (true) {

>                 // fetch the message from MB

Reviewer 3: IMO MB here is out of context, and the user may not even use an MB.

Can we just say
```suggestion
                // Fetch the messages to be delivered. 
```

Author: @ayeshLK

>                 check hubclient->notifyContentDistribution({content: "This is sample content delivery"});

Reviewer 3: Variable assignment required error.

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
               ContentDistributionSuccess | SubscriptionDeletedError | error publishResponse = check hubclient->notifyContentDistribution({content: "This is sample content delivery"});
```

            }
        }
    }
```

**Publisher Implementation**

> The `websub:PublisherClient` is moved to the `websubhub:PublisherClient`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`websub:PublisherClient` is moved to `ballerina/websubhub` and can now be used as `websubhub:PublisherClient`.
```

Author: @ayeshLK

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
`websub:PublisherClient` is moved to `ballerina/websubhub` and can now be used as `websubhub:PublisherClient`.
```

      ```ballerina
      import ballerinax/prometheus as _;
      ```

- `Prometheus` and `Jaeger` extensions are introduced back.
    - The `Prometheus` extension can be enabled by adding the following configuration in the `Config.toml` file.

      ```toml
      [ballerina.observe]
      metricsEnabled=true
      metricsReporter="prometheus"
      
      [ballerinax.prometheus]
      host="127.0.0.1"  # Optional Configuration. Default value is localhost
      port=9797         # Optional Configuration. Default value is 9797
      ```

    - The `Jaeger` extension can be enabled by adding the following config.

      ```toml
      [ballerina.observe]
      tracingEnabled=true
      tracingProvider="jaeger"
      
      [ballerinax.jaeger]
      agentHostname="127.0.0.1"  # Optional Configuration. Default value is localhost
      agentPort=6831             # Optional Configuration. Default value is 6831
      ```

    - By default, the `Jaeger` extension now publishes traces to the Jaeger Agent using the `jaeger.thrift` over the compact Thrift protocol.  

#### Code to Cloud

> - The Kubernetes artifacts can be generated using the `--cloud=k8s` build option. The `import ballerina/cloud as _` is no longer required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The Kubernetes artifacts can be generated using the `--cloud=k8s` build option. The `import ballerina/cloud as _` import is no longer required.
```

Author: @anuruddhal

- VS code plugin support for the `Kubernetes.toml`

>     - Code Completion based on the c2c specification

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Code Completion based on the c2c specification.
```

This period at the end seems to be inconsistent though. Shall we check and fix? @praneesha

    - Code Actions add/modify the probes and environments based on the source code.

#### Breaking Changes

- Resource method declarations are no longer allowed in object-type descriptors.
- Resource methods are not considered to be part of the type.
- Non-`isolated` service variables defined outside an `isolated` function can be accessed within the function only if the variable is a `final` variable and the type is a subtype of `readonly`.
- The `@icon` annotation has been replaced with the `@display` annotation.

> - The value type of the XML iteration, which was previously `xml|string` is now `xml`. Moreover, the value type of the `xml<T>` iteration is now `T`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The value type of XML iteration, which was previously `xml|string` is now `xml`. Moreover, the value type of `xml<T>` iteration is now `T`. 
```

#### Taint Analyzer Update

> With this release, the taint analyzer does not produce taint errors unless explicitly enabled. However, the taint analyzer does perform the taint flow analysis without producing errors regardless of it being enabled or not.

Reviewer 3: Is the second sentence useful to the user? The user can't do anything about it, right? @rdhananjaya

Reviewer 4: I felt it's incomplete to just say enable/disable taint analyzer. It's just a bit of information.

Reviewer 5: If we are not going to produce errors, is there any point in running the taint analyzer?

Author: @rdhananjaya

Reviewer 4: Yes, say module B depends on module A. 
Module A authors may not enable taint checking but if module B authors or who ever compiles that module enable taint checking we need the taint tables for functions from module A in order to derive taint tables for module B.

Author: @MaryamZi @pubudu91

Reviewer 3: So technically what we enable/disable is logging the errors, right?

Shouldn't this be
```suggestion
With this release, the taint analyzer does not produce taint errors unless explicitly enabled. However, the taint analyzer still performs the taint flow analysis without producing errors if error logging is not enabled.
```

> This is enabled via the build options below in the `Ballerina.toml` file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is enabled via the build option below in the `Ballerina.toml` file
```

```toml
[build-options]
taintCheck = true
```

> or else, by using the `--taint-check` flag in the Ballerina CLI tools as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
or else, by using the `--taint-check` option in the Ballerina CLI tools as follows.
```

```ballerina
runtime:sleep(2.0);
```

###### Introduction of the `getStackTrace` Method

A new `getStackTrace` method has been introduced in the `ballerina/lang.runtime` library to get a stack trace for the current call stack for the specified execution point. It returns an array of stack frames. 

```ballerina
runtime:StackFrame[] stackFrames = runtime:getStackTrace();
```

###### Introduction of the `Cloneable` Type

A new `Cloneable` type has been introduced to the `ballerina/lang.value` library. This is a cyclic union type. This type represents the values on which `clone` and `cloneReadOnly` can be applied on.

```ballerina
public type Cloneable readonly|xml|Cloneable[]|map<Cloneable>|table<map<Cloneable>>;
```

#### Rename of the `ballerina/java` Module

The `ballerina/java` module is renamed to `ballerina/jballerina.java`.

#### Runtime

New APIs are added for creating immutable Ballerina records and arrays from Java. 

The new `ValueCreator.createReadonlyArrayValue` API creates a new `readonly` Ballerina array from the given Java array and the `ValueCreator.createReadonlyRecordValue` creates a new `readonly` Ballerina record.

##### Configurable

> The `configurable` feature is improved to support variables with decimal and arrays of int, float, string, boolean and decimal types.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `configurable` feature is improved to support variables with decimal and arrays of `int`, `float`, `string`, `boolean`, and `decimal` types.
```

Reviewer 3: @HindujaB, do we need a simple example here of how the value can be specified in the toml file?

Reviewer 13: We already have TOML example for the previously supported types in the slp7 release notes. 
We can add as following though, 
```suggestion
The `configurable` feature is improved to support variables with decimal and arrays of `int`, `float`, `string`, `boolean`, and `decimal` types.

The format of the `Config.toml` file is as follows.

```toml
[pkgName.submoduleName]
# The above toml table specification is not needed for single file execution
intVar = 24
floatVar = 4.8
stringVar = "hello world"
booleanVar = false
decimalVar = 2.33

intArray = [1,2,3]
floatArray = [9.0, 5.6]
stringArray = ["red", "yellow", "green"]
booleanArray = [true, false, false, true]
decimalArray = [8.9, 4.5, 6.2]
```
```

Reviewer 3: Sorry, what I meant was for the list. 

What if we add something like

````
The arrays needs to be specified in the TOML file as follows.

```toml
[pkgName.submoduleName]
intArray = [1,2,3]
stringArray = ["red", "yellow", "green"]
```
````

Unless we can assume the user would know this. Looping in @pubudu91 too.

Reviewer 13: +1

Reviewer 5: I think it's ok to assume prior knowledge about TOML since it's a standard format. What we need to show in samples is the format of a config TOML file, not the TOML syntax. And maybe how it would then be accessed in the code

Reviewer 3: How about something like

````md
For example if the `Config.toml` file contains the following arrays 

```toml
ints = [1,2,3]
strings = ["red", "yellow", "green"]
```

they can be loaded as follows.

```ballerina
configurable int[] & readonly ints = ?;
configurable string[] & readonly strings = ?;
```
````

Reviewer 13: This sample looks good to me.

Author: Updated.

Reviewer 13: ````suggestion

For example if the `Config.toml` file contains the following TOML arrays, 

```toml
ints = [1,2,3]
strings = ["red", "yellow", "green"]
```
they can be loaded with following configurable variables.

```ballerina
configurable int[] & readonly ints = ?;
configurable string[] & readonly strings = ?;
```

````

Configurations can be provided at runtime using the `Config.toml` file in the current working directory or by exporting the file path using the `BALCONFIGFILE` environment variable. For the tests, configurations can be overridden by having the `Config.toml` file inside the tests directory.

#### Developer Tools

##### Language Server

- `Find all Reference` Support
- CodeLens support for `DocumentThis` is available to auto-generate documentation for public documentable constructs
- CodeAction for `ChangeVariableType` is available to solve incompatible variable assignments

##### Project API

TOML and MD files are made a part of the Project API.

##### Debugger

- Enhanced table variable presentation with the support to view child entries
- Introduced type test expression evaluation support

##### Test Framework

> Support for function pointers in the `@test:Config {}` annotation. This applies to the `before`, `after`, `dependsOn`, and `dataProvider` fields of the annotation. 

Reviewer 3: Should we mention that this previously expected the name of the function (a string)? @Dilhasha @Ibaqu

Reviewer 21: Will the following suggestion be enough?

```suggestion
Support for function pointers in the `@test:Config {}` annotation. The fields `before`, `after`, `dependsOn` and `dataProvider`, which previously expected the name of the function as a `string`, now accept function pointers instead.
```

##### Bindgen Tool
Introduced a `-m|--modules` flag to generate module-level mappings for Java packages generated using the Bindgen tool.

##### Maven Resolver

> Introduced the support for specifying custom Maven repositories in the `Ballerina.toml` file. The configuration below can be used for this purpose.

Reviewer 3: Do we need the "the"?
```suggestion
Introduced support for specifying custom Maven repositories in the `Ballerina.toml` file. The configuration below can be used for this purpose.
```

```toml
[[platform.java11.repository]]
id = "<maven-repository-id>"
url = "<maven-repository-url>"
username = "<github-username>"
password = "<github-PAT>"
```

##### Ballerina Shell REPL [EXPERIMENTAL]

> Introduced REPL support for Ballerina, which can be accessed via the `bal shell` command. Shell runs a REPL instance of Ballerina to enable running snippets of code. An example shell session is shown below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Introduced Read-Evaluate-Print-Loop (REPL) support for Ballerina, which can be accessed via the `bal shell` command. Shell runs a REPL instance of Ballerina to enable running snippets of code. An example shell session is shown below:
```

```bash
> bal shall
Welcome to Ballerina Shell REPL.
Type /exit to exit and /help to list available commands.

=$ any a = 10

=$ a is int

=$ function add(int x, int y) returns int => x + y

=$ add(3, 4)
7

=$ /exit 
| Bye!!!
```

##### Documentation

Now, documentation URLs follow the `orgName/packageName/version/moduleName` structure.

#### Standard Library

##### HTTP Module Improvements

###### Allow Multiple Return Types for the Resource Method

The `resource` method can return anydata type, an `http:Response` object, `StatusCode` records along with `error?`. Instead of using an `http:Caller`, the response can be sent similarly by returning from the method. 

When returning anydata, the `@http:Payload` annotation can be used to specify the content type of the response additionally. Otherwise, the default content type of the respective return value type will be added. 

```ballerina
service on helloEP {
    resource function gethello () returns @http:Payload {mediaType: text / plain} string {
        return “Hello world”;
    }

> }

Reviewer 17: +1

```

##### Introduce Status Code Response Records

With the introduction of records to the mostly used status code, the response can be sent inline. 

```ballerina
service on helloEP {
    resource function get hello () returns http:Ok? {
        return {body:”Hello world”, headers: {x-test:”123abc”}, mediaType:”text/plain”};
    }
}
```

###### Introduce the Response Limit Configuration

> The `http:Client` facilitates inbound response validations on the size limits. Each response that fails to meet the threshold will be returned as an error.

Reviewer 5: Yeah. Threshold usually is used when referring to lower bounds

    ```

- Introduced a WebSocket Async client
    The WebSocket module now has a `websocket:AsyncClient`. This client can take in a `websocket:Service` as a callback service to receive WebSocket messages at the client initialization. This service has a predefined set of remote functions like `onTextMessage`, `onBinaryMessage`, `onError`, `onPing`, `onPong`, `onOpen`, and `onClose`. 

    **New Syntax**

    ```ballerina
    import ballerina/io;
    import ballerina/websocket;

    public function main() returns websocket:Error? {
        websocket:AsyncClient wsClientEp = check new ("ws://echo.websocket.org", new ClientService());
        var err = wsClientEp->writeTextMessage("Hello World!");
    }

    service class ClientService {
        *websocket:Service;
        remote function onTextMessage(websocket:Caller conn, string text) {
        }
    }
    ```

    The `websocket:AsyncClient` has the `writeTextMessage`, `writeBinaryMessage`, `ping`, `pong`, and `close` remote functions. 

    **New Syntax:**

    ```ballerina
    asyncClient>writeTextMessage(text);
    asyncClient>writeBinaryMessage(byteArr);
    ```

- Improved the listener/client return type to union with error

>     Errors, which might occur during the listener and client initialization can be handled now. When the `listener` keyword is added to the listener, the error will fail the module init. 

Reviewer 5: Saw a similar description somewhere else too?

- The return type of the `init` functions of the `kafka:Producer` and `kafka:Consumer` is changed to `Error?`. 
- The `subscribeToPattern()` of the `kafka:Consumer` is changed to `subscribeWithPattern()`.
- A new record type named `ProducerRecord` is introduced for sending messages. 

    ```ballerina
    public type ProducerRecord record {|
        string topic;
        byte[] key?;
        byte[] value;
        int timestamp?;
        int partition?;
    |};
    ```

- The `send()` method of the `kafka:Producer` is changed to `sendProducerRecord(ProducerRecord producerRecord)`. An example of sending a message with the new API is given below.

    ```ballerina
    string message = "Hello World, Ballerina";
    kafkaProducer->sendProducerRecord({ topic: "test-kafka-topic",
                                        value: message.toBytes() });
    ```

###### Service and Listener Changes

- The return type of the `kafka:Listener init` is changed to `Error?`. 
- Has a single type of service that supports the two types of remote functions below:
    - `onConsumerRecord(kafka:ConsumerRecord[] record) {}` 

>     - `onConsumerRecord(kafka:Caller caller, kafka:ConsumerRecord[] record) {}`

Reviewer 2: Ah yes. @praneesha Could you please remove line 902
`onConsumerRecord(kafka:ConsumerRecord[] record) {}`

>     - `onConsumerRecord(kafka:Caller caller, kafka:ConsumerRecord[] record) {}`

Author: Removed.

- The `kafka:Caller` is introduced to remote functions to commit offsets of the consumed records.
- The new syntax with the service changes is given below.

    ```ballerina
    listener kafka:Listener kafkaListener = new (consumerConfigs);

    service kafka:Service on kafkaListener {
        remote function onConsumerRecord(kafka:Caller caller, kafka:ConsumerRecord[] records) {
        // Process consumed records
        }
    }
    ```

##### NATS Module Improvements

 - The `ballerinax/nats` module is split into two packages as `ballerinax/nats` (NATS client) and `ballerinax/stan` (NATS Streaming client).
- The `nats:Connection` is removed entirely. 
- The `nats:Producer` is renamed to `nats:Client`. 

> - The return type of the `nats:Client` is changed to `Error?`.

Author: @aashikam

- The `nats:Message` object is changed into a record type. 

    ```ballerina
    public type Message record {|
           byte[] content;
           string subject;
           string replyTo?;
    |};
    ```

> - The `publish()` of the `nats:Producer` is changed to `publishMessage(Message message)` of the `nats:Client`. An example of sending a message with the new API is given below.

Author: @aashikam

    ```ballerina
    string message = "Hello from Ballerina";

    nats:Client natsClient = check new;

    check natsClient->publishMessage({
        content: message.toBytes(),
        subject: "demo.bbe.subject"
    });
    ```

###### Service and Listener Changes

> - The return type of the `nats:Listener init` is changed to `Error?`. 

Author: @aashikam

- Has a single type of service that supports the two types of remote functions below:
    - `onMessage(nats:Message message) {}`  
    - `onRequest(nats:Message message) returns anydata {}` 
- A new `onRequest` function is introduced to directly reply to a message by returning a value if the `replyTo` subject is present.
- If the subject name is not given in the `@nats:ServiceConfig`, the name of the service is considered as the subject name. 
- The new syntax with the service changes is given below.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/nats;

    listener nats:Listener subscription = new;

    @nats:ServiceConfig {subject: "demo.bbe.*"}
    service nats:Service on subscription {

        remote function onMessage(nats:Message message) {
        }
    }
    ```

##### NATS Streaming Module Improvements

A new package named `ballerinax/stan` is introduced to handle the NATS Streaming Server related functionality.

###### Client Changes

- The `nats:Connection` is removed entirely from the NATS Streaming client as well. 

> - The `stan:Client` is introduced to handle the client-side functionality. 

Author: @aashikam

- An example of sending messages using the new `ballerinax/stan` package to a NATS Streaming server is given below. 

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/stan;

    public function main() returns error? {
        string message = "Hello from Ballerina";
        stan:Client stanClient = check new;
        string result = check stanClient->publishMessage({
            content: message.toBytes(),
            subject: "demo"
        });
    }
    ```

###### Service and Listener Changes

> - The return type of the `stan:Listener init` is `Error?`. 

Author: @aashikam

> - Has a single type of service that supports the `onMessage` remote function below:

Author: @aashikam

    `onMessage(nats:Message message) {}`
- If the subject name is not given in the `@stan:ServiceConfig`, the name of the service is considered as the subject name. 
- The new syntax with the service changes is given below.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/stan;

    listener stan:Listener lis = new;

    @stan:ServiceConfig {subject: "demo"}
    service stan:Service on lis {
        remote function onMessage(stan:Message message) {
        }
    }
    ```

##### RabbitMQ Module Improvements

###### Client Changes

- The `rabbitmq:Connection` is removed entirely.

> - The `rabbitmq:Channel` is renamed to `rabbitmq:Client`, which will handle the client-side functionality. The `init` function of the `rabbitmq:Client` returns `Error?`.

Author: @aashikam

- The `rabbitmq:Message` object is changed into a record type.

    ```ballerina
    public type Message record {|
        byte[] content;
        string routingKey;
        string exchange = "";
        int deliveryTag?;
        BasicProperties properties?;
    |};
    ```

- The `queueDeclare()` function of the `rabbtimq:Channel` is split into `queueDeclare()` and `queueAutoGenerate()` of the `rabbtimq:Client`. 

> - The `basicPublish()` function of the `rabbitmq:Channel` is changed to `publishMessage(Message message)` of the `rabbitmq:Client`. An example of sending a message with the new API is given below.

Author: @aashikam

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/rabbitmq;

    public function main() returns error? {
        rabbitmq:Client newClient = check new;

        check newClient->queueDeclare("MyQueue");

        string message = "Hello from Ballerina";
        check newClient->publishMessage({
            content: message.toBytes(),
            routingKey: "MyQueue"
        });
    }
    ```

###### Service and Listener Changes

> - The return type of the `rabbitmq:Listener init` is changed to `Error?`. 

Author: @aashikam

- Has a single type of service that supports the three types of remote functions below:
     - `onMessage(rabbitmq:Message message) {}`
     - `onMessage(rabbitmq:Message message, rabbitmq:Caller caller) {}`
     - `onRequest(rabbitmq:Message message) returns anydata {}`

> - A new `onRequest` function is introduced to directly reply to a message by returning a value if the `replyTo` subject is present.

Author: @aashikam

- If the subject name is not given in the `@rabbitmq:ServiceConfig`, the name of the service is considered as the subject name. 
- The new syntax with the service changes is given below.

    ```ballerina
    import ballerinax/rabbitmq;

    listener rabbitmq:Listener channelListener = new;

    @rabbitmq:ServiceConfig {queueName: "MyQueue"}
    service rabbitmq:Service on channelListener {
        remote function onMessage(rabbitmq:Message message) {
        }
    }
    ```

##### Time Module Improvements

> The improvements below have been added to the `Time` module.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The improvements below have been introduced to the `ballerina/time` module.
```

> - Added support for commonly-used date-time formatters in the `time:format()` & `time:parse()` APIs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added support for commonly-used date-time formatters in the `time:format()` and `time:parse()` APIs.
```

- The hours, minutes, seconds, milliseconds, and zone ID parameters of the `time:createTime()` API have been made defaultable.
- Introduced a new `time:Duration` record type to represent a chunk of time.
- Modified the `time:addDuration()` and `time:subtractDuration()` APIs to accept the `time:Duration` records to be added/subtracted.
- Introduced a new `time:getDifference()` API to calculate the difference between two `time:Time` records.
- Introduced a new `time:getTimezones()` API to retrieve the timezone IDs supported by the underlying native code.

> - Introduced an enum to represent the days of the week and modified the `time:getWeekday()` API to return this enum.

Reviewer 3: Should we say method instead of API for each of these? @ThishaniLucas

Author: Updated.

##### Rename System Module to OS

The previous `system` module is now renamed to `os`. All the Operating System independent functionalities are included in this module.

##### Runtime Module Improvements

> The methods below have been removed from the `runtime` module since these methods have moved to the `lang:runtime`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The methods below have been removed from the `runtime` module since these methods have moved to the `lang:runtime` lang library.
```

> - sleep
> - getCallStack

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `sleep`
- `getCallStack`
```

##### Email Module Improvements

###### Common Changes for Client and Server Configurations

> - The `email:Email` is changed to `email:Message`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `email:Email` is changed to `email:Message`.
```

> - Attachment support is improved to support file attachments directly with its content type. The new `email:Attachment` is as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Attachment support is improved to support file attachments directly with its content type. The new `email:Attachment` record is as follows.
```

    }
    ```

##### WebSub Module Improvements

###### Hub-Related Changes

- Default implementation for the `websub:Hub` has been removed from the module.

> - API specification for the WebSub Hub is moved to the `websubhub` module.

Author: Added.

##### Publisher-Related Changes

- The implementation related to the `websub:PublisherClient` is moved to the `websubhub` module.

##### Subscriber-Related Changes

> - The two new configurations below are introduced to the `@websub:SubscriberServiceConfiguration`.

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
- The two new configurations below are introduced to the `@websub:SubscriberServiceConfiguration` for hub/topic discovery.
```

  - `accept` - The expected media type
  - `acceptLanguage` - The expected language type
- API specification for the `@websub:SubscriberService` is updated with the changes below.
  - The `onIntentVerification` and `onNotification` functions are removed.
  - The `onSubscriptionVerification`, `onEventNotification`, and `onSubscriptionValidationDenied` functions are introduced.
- The updated `websub:SubscriberService` sample implementation is as follows.

    ```ballerina
    listener websub:Listener testListener = new (9090);

>     @websub:SubscriberServiceConfig {
>         path: "/websub",
>         subscribeOnStartUp: false,

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
    @websub:SubscriberServiceConfig {
        subscribeOnStartUp: false,
```

        target: ["http://localhost:9191/websub/hub", "http://websubpubtopic.com"],
        leaseSeconds: 36000,
        secret: "Kslk30SNF2AChs2"

>     }
>     service / subscriberon testListener {

Reviewer 20: ```suggestion
    }
    service /subscriber on testListener {
```
